[Music]
so can you imagine boarding a plane only
to find all the seats facing away from
you you might think there might be some
kind of mistake but turning the seats
around would actually be the best way to
get passengers from A to B why well let
me tell you number one for the health of
it research shows that backward facing
airline seats are safer than
forward-facing ones they provide extra
support for the head and torso plus
their larger size and heavier weight
provide even more protection by
lessening the impact when landing or in
the case of an accident the Society of
Automotive Engineers which creates
safety standards in the automobile and
aerospace industries explains that
forward-facing seats allow the torso to
move forward this doesn't harness the
same kind of protection our backs are
scientifically proven to withstand more
shock than our chests in front
- it's like babies babies and toddlers
are supposed to sit in rear-facing car
seats until they're at least two years
old you ever wonder why that is
because it's much safer statistics show
that rear-facing seats reduce the risk
of injury by more than 70 percent this
is the same argument for rear-facing
airline seats if an airplane has to come
to a sudden stop like when it's landing
or in the worst case scenario it crashes
into something the impact is far less
intense on the passengers number three
it's safe space
airlines that have included backward
facing seats in their business class
have been able to fit 80 more seats in
the cabin travelers also benefited from
an increased amount of space between
seats overall up to 15% with an added
four inches of legroom wall a recent
patent suggested an economy class cabin
hexagon with an alternating forward and
backward facing seats a perk the seats
can easily be folded up the downside
yeah it looks pretty awkward for the
person sitting in the middle plus do
they not have arm rests Oh
or other number four the views are great
in business class it can be hard to
catch glimpses of the plane's wings and
engine since they're behind you with
rear-facing seats you get to enjoy the
view the entire time you fly or if
you're willing to give up some legroom
you could just enjoy the same great view
by flying coach just saying number five
sleeping is better airplanes are
naturally angled up a degree or two when
in-flight seats that face backward can
recline into fully flat beds when facing
this direction your head will be just a
tad bit higher than your feet that
certainly makes sleeping a lot safer and
more comfortable number six it's fun if
you're someone who's flown your share of
a miles try booking a flight on a
rear-facing seat next time you travel
not only will you be seen as cutting
edge mm-hmm you may feel like you're
flying for the very first time number
seven better amenities fliers aboard
planes like the Boeing 777-200 series
claim that airlines sporting rear-facing
seats also up the ante with their food
soaps and lotions
if these seats are usually in business
class then that might not come as a
surprise so with all these benefits why
don't all airlines have the option of
rear-facing seats well I never said they
were ideal for example number one too
much weight because rear-facing seats
are heavier than forward-facing ones
this adds weight to the plane more
weight to the aircraft means more fuel
consumption which usually translates
into pricier tickets
the price per seat would be considerably
higher and probably not an option for
economy fliers to no privacy some
frequent fliers that have tried the
backward facing seats say then it's a
little awkward when you ride facing
other passengers one woman had an
interesting experience during Meal Time
she sat in the last row of business
facing coach as you know first and
business classes get fed earlier so she
had to eat her meal while the economy
passengers stared at her the entire time
with the current models being staggered
with both rear and forward-facing seats
privacy can go out the window some
airplanes include privacy doors but it's
not always an option for aisle
passengers three no personal space one
passenger told a story about a long
international flight with a variety of
seats that converted into beds either
straight forward or backward he had to
wake up in the middle of the night and
literally crawl over his neighbor to go
use the restroom he unintentionally woke
the neighbor up each time for it's too
pricey don't expect Airlines to suddenly
have a change of heart and flip all
their seats around in fact the
practicalities of it wouldn't be just
flipping what you already have
completely replacing old seats and
installing new rear-facing ones would
cost a fortune
most airlines are not ready willing or
able to conduct complete overhauls on
their aircraft passengers probably
aren't ready either because number five
it could make you sick if you're someone
who struggles with vertigo or nausea I'm
raising my hand here these innovative
and revolutionary seats may not be for
you either the shift your body
experiences while taking off and landing
facing the opposite end of the plane may
be too much for your inner ear to handle
such passengers have reported being sick
and feeling queasy throughout the rest
of their flight it's mostly takeoff and
landing that mess you up though you
really can't feel the difference
mid-flight like you would on a bus or a
train although just looking out the
window and seeing the clouds move the
other way can also be disorienting
number six sound interference it's a
little more challenging to have quiet
reading time while traveling when you
have a group of people facing you and
vice versa having different voices
talking at once could make it more
difficult to zone out one another or
carry on a conversation with a fellow
passenger or it might encourage people
to strike up a conversation that's great
and all but sometimes I just want to
sleep
sorry neighbor number seven takeoffs
could be uncomfortable if back-facing
seats are better for when the plane
comes to a stop then you're just
reversing the problem normally you have
to fight your body's urged to jet
forward when the brakes are applied now
that'll happen during takeoff as your
chest is pushed toward the back of the
plane as it speeds down the runway
you'll have to push yourself back in
your seat to fight the inertia so what's
better discomfort during takeoff or
landing looks like we just have to pick
number eight it's a heavy issue
remember that rear-facing seats are
heavier apparently one airline was so
concerned about fuel consumption that
they specifically asked flight crew
members to watch their weight well seems
to me like there should be less
offensive ways to cut fuel costs and
keeping the lighter front facing seats
could be a start
number nine people wouldn't want them
studies done on various forms of
transportation show that most people
choose forward-facing seats whether
they're traveling by train bus or plane
it seems the position they're most
familiar with is the one they feel
comfortable choosing would they ever
just get used to flying the other way
around we might never know number 10
experiments are too much of a risk
completely redoing seating arrangements
on board would be risky and may not
guarantee revenue Southwest Airlines
provided lounge seating for a season it
might have worked nicely when families
wanted to sit together but the same
issues kept popping up the airline
reported that people either loved
couldn't stand the lounge seating
arrangement if you think all of this
sounds bad one airplane model had a
stand up patent a suggestion that fliers
stand up while traveling to maximize
space but luckily it didn't make it past
the idea stage hey I wouldn't stand for
that would you don't worry though there
are plenty of things airlines do get
right ever notice how most cabin
interiors are blue it's a calming color
specifically chosen to put travelers at
ease since flying causes anxiety for
many we can rest assured that Airlines
and aircraft engineers are always
working to improve our travel experience
and pack more of us into less space but
comfortably still would you be willing
to fly sitting backward or standing up
let me know down below and if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life